---
weight: 6
---
# Tasks for Next Class

## Infrastructure 

---
**Author:** Jose Cahue  
**Last Updated:** May 2021

### NAT instance

- Task: Convernt to Nat Instance from Nat Gateway. This would make the infrastructure more cost effective.

### API Gateway

- Task: Implement API gateways to stream line communicaton between components.
    - See how API Gateways could simplify and make the project more efficient.

### AWS Auto Scaling

- Task: Implement Auto Scaling in order to prepare for possible production level deployment.

### Security Groups

- Task: Clean up and document for more clarity in Secury groups for all resources
    - Inbound/ Oubound rules
    - resource access rules

## Front End 

---
**Author:** Juan Zarate  
**Last Updated:** May 2021

### UI Improvement

- Task: Make the webpages more fluid and smooth.

### Logout Button

- Task: We had one as a web page but add one so it's just a button on the top right corner of each page on the admins side.

### Admin Registration

- Task: We had a web page for this but we removed it. Implement one so that multiple admins could register.

### Server Host

- Task: We currently have it set to port 8000 but it needs to be set to [www.csuci-submitter.com](http://www.csuci-submitter.com/)

## Back End

---
**Author:** Sam Mazarei
**Last Updated:** May 2021

### Next for `processStudentTestCase.py` 
At the end of the semester we added a small feature that uploads the output file generated by the subexecutor container to the S3 bucket in the same directory as the rest of the submission files.

The next team that takes on this project will need to debug the functionality of the `processStudentTestCases.py` script from the uploading of the results to the S3 bucket to the end. The functionality that needs debugging includes:

- Uploading submission results csv file to S3 bucket.
- Retrieving the student emails associated with the student tokens of the submission from the RDS MySql database.
- Emailing the submission results to each student in submission using SES.
- Cleaning up the local directory - removing files in the `~/submission/<subid>/` directory, and then `.../<subid>/` itself.
- Using the message receipt handle to delete the message from the SQS queue.
- Please, so not forget to set the appropriate visibility window.

### Back-end redesign considerations 

**Any future team considering taking on this project  may want to consider a server-less approach.**

Instead of the lambda triggering and placing a message on the SQS queue, consider rewriting the script that executes inside of the subexecutor container so that the lambda function runs the subexecutor image, passing to it the subid (extracted from the key of the object that triggered the lambda to begin with), and the subexecutor container can download the necessary files from the S3 bucket, execute the submission, and then upload the results to the bucket and email students. 

This approach would further decouple the architecture remove the need for the SQS queue.
